When Lewis Hamilton lines up on the starting grid for the Australian grand prix in Melbourne the expectation surrounding the talented young British driver will seem overwhelming.
The challenge of a formula one debut can never be over-estimated and, although the McLaren-Mercedes team has prepared him rigorously, the 22-year-old is likely to find it even tougher than he expected.
The sport's senior category is unforgiving.
Damon Hill, who won the 1996 world championship driving a Williams-Renault, is cautious about offering Hamilton advice but vividly recalls his own debut at the wheel of a two-year-old Brabham BT60B in the 1992 British grand prix at Silverstone.
"I was lapped by Nigel Mansell's winning Williams, which in a sense was almost as good as finishing strongly with the leading team, " he says.
"You need to be at the front on your debut, or down at the back where you'll get plenty of TV coverage as the first car to be lapped.
"Seriously, I would never presume to offer Lewis advice unless I was asked for it.
But for a young driver coming into formula one you get a window, a period of grace, in your steep learning curve during that first season.
But that breathing space lasts only so long.
If he's not a contender six months into the year, then he might need to be a little worried.
"I think it's much better to start with a car at the front, obviously, but the real thing to avoid is that black hole in the middle of the grid - say between seventh and 15th - that has consumed so many drivers over the years.
"Jackie Stewart, three times the world champion, recalls how satisfied he was to finish sixth for BRM in his first world championship race, the 1965 South African grand prix at East London.
He did not expect too much and to score a world championship point was a bonus.
"My advice to Lewis in Melbourne is to take his time, " says Stewart.
"He doesn't need to be on pole position and he doesn't need to win the race.
What he needs to do is finish the race, which means keeping out of trouble first and foremost.
If he does that, and taking into account how competitive the new McLaren looks, he could well finish in the points and that would be a considerable achievement in itself.
"Lewis has already accumulated a great deal of racing experience in other categories, so he goes into the first race of the year as a pretty seasoned runner.
Perhaps he even needs to pull back slightly and temper that youthful enthusiasm. "
One of Stewart's contemporaries, Mario Andretti, knows all about the pressure on debut.
In 1968 he was invited by Colin Chapman, the Lotus boss, to drive in the US grand prix at Watkins Glen.
He qualified on pole for this maiden race and followed Stewart's mantra in the opening stages until he retired with technical problems.
"Again, the tightening was right, " says Andretti.
"I was lucky because the Lotus 49 was the car of the moment.
It would be like a rookie - indeed just like Lewis - going into a Ferrari or McLaren today.
It suited my style because I felt immediately in control and very much at home.
That's when I truly fell in love with the formula one car.
I felt 'this is where I belong'.
"Niki Lauda, who went on to win two world championships for Ferrari and a third for McLaren, admits that his early formula one races were bruising, unfulfilled affairs and he envies Hamilton's opportunity.
In his view the challenge facing the young British driver is clear-cut.
"Lewis is in absolutely the perfect situation, " says Lauda, who retired from racing at the end of 1985.
"With McLaren he is in a top team and is going to be partnered by the best driver in the world in the form of Fernando Alonso.
All he has to do is to watch, listen and learn from Fernando.
"Lauda remembers that he did not really have the necessary experience to get the best out of the troublesome March 721X in his first few races at the start of 1972: "The car was fitted with a gearbox from an Alfa Romeo sports car and it was just about impossible to use.
If you pushed it from fifth gear into fourth, sometimes you would get second or first.
All the time it was just pure luck if you got the right gear.
"The handling wasn't very good either; the thing just swapped from acute understeer to sudden over-steer.
As soon as the car began to slide you had to say 'forget it' and wait for it to spin.
Lewis can be thankful that he won't find himself struggling with problems like that.
"Was it obvious?
How the greats did on debutStirling Moss - Switzerland 1951, Berne Previously: Leading light in 500cc British F3.
Drove for: HWM, an operation struggling to get a toe-hold in F1.
A bit like Toro Rosso today.
Qualified: 14th in his fragile contender, which was little more than an F2 machine.
The race: Kept out of trouble to keep going to the finish, two laps behind the winner and eighth out of 21 starters.
Then what: That was his only start in 1951.
Won 16 of 66 career races and became known as the greatest driver never to have won a world title.
Nigel Mansell - Austria 1980, Osterreichring Previously: Kart racer and winner in Formula Ford and F3 single seater.
Drove for: Lotus, Britain's premier 60s and 70s team, which had begun a gentle decline.
Qualified: 24th out of 25, using what equipment regular drivers Mario Andretti and Elio de Angelis left behind.
The race: Dogged run near back of field until a fuel leak into the cockpit caused cramp in his calf muscles.
Retired.
Then what: Started only three races that season and gave up car to Andretti for last race.
Won world title in 1992.
Alain Prost - Argentina 1980, Buenos AiresPreviously: Leading F3 contender who won in the Monaco support race.
Drove for: McLaren, within months of it being shaken out of its midfield torpor by Ron Dennis's arrival.
Qualified: 12th out of 28, a good performance considering the McLaren M29 he was driving was well past its best.
The race: Accomplished and very controlled drive to finish sixth and score a world championship point.
Then what: Finished 15th in the drivers' championship.
Won four world titles.
Ayrton Senna - Brazil 1984, Rio de JaneiroPreviously: Beat Martin Brundle to the 1983 British F3 championship.
Drove for: Toleman, the enterprising British team which is Renault today.
Qualified: Modestly 16th out of 27, coping well in front of his home crowd.
The race: Elbowed ahead of fellow debutant Martin Brundle's Tyrrell on the grass going down to the first corner but was an early retirement with loss of turbo boost pressure.
Then what: Finished the season ninth, tied with Mansell on 13 points.
Won three world titles.
Michael Schumacher - Belgium 1991, Spa-FrancorchampsPreviously Rising star who impressed by taking on the British Jaguars at the wheel of his Sauber-Mercedes group C machine.
Drove for Jordan, new to F1 that year.
Qualified Outstandingly seventh, belying the fact he'd had only half a day's testing at Silverstone.
The race Broke the clutch accelerating away from the start.
Race over but he had done sufficient to mark out his potential.
Then what Took 14 points from six races that year.
Won a record-breaking seven world titles.