Formula One’s seven UK teams may have to cut as many as 1, 599 jobs under plans to reduce their budgets to a maximum of £120m next year.
Analysis by The Daily Telegraph shows nearly two in five of the F1 workforce in Britain are at risk as the international lockdown forces deep cuts.
A £140m spending limit was due to be introduced in 2021 but the team bosses agreed on Thursday to reduce the cap by a further 14pc in a bid to keep teams afloat.
The crisis has triggered the cancellation of nine races in the current season and driven down the revenue from sponsors and prize money.
It has fuelled concerns that F1’s minnows could be at particular risk as they stand little chance of winning but still have annual costs of more than £130m.
According to the teams’ latest accounts, costs came to an average of £193.
4m in 2018 with the UK’s biggest spenders, reigning champions Mercedes, having a budget of £321m.
After research and development, salaries are the biggest expenses and the accounts show that the teams employ a total of 4, 276 staff who are paid £372m.
Half of the teams have put staff on furlough and slashed driver salaries but even bigger cuts could be yet to come.
Zak Brown, McLaren chief executive, told the BBC earlier this month that he “could see four teams disappearing” due to coronavirus and urged a budget cap of £80m ($100m) to protect them.
However, Ferrari reportedly opposed a cap below £120m due to the redundancies it would require.
Even at that level 37pc of the total UK workforce of 4, 276, which is clustered in Northamptonshire and Oxfordshire, are at risk.
The estimate is based on data on staff costs from F1 team accounts, reduced in line with the incoming budget cap.
That figure was divided by the current average salary to yield the number of staff that each team would employ under the cap.
Employees who work on the design, development and manufacture of the engines are excluded from the cap along with marketing staff and driver salaries.
It is already on the teams’ minds as Renault’s managing director, Cyril Abiteboul, recently warned.
“If the top teams have to make hundreds of layoffs in light of the budget cap and we continue to pay the drivers several tens of millions per year, I find that there is something not right about that, ” he said.
Personnel could possibly be relocated to roles within related companies as Mercedes, Ferrari, Renault and McLaren all make road cars, and McLaren and Red Bull have subsidiaries that work in other technology areas.
Alternatively, staff could move into other areas of the automotive industry or other racing series.
Ultimately, lower budgets should make F1 more sustainable and competitive.
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
Thank you for your support.
Need help?Visit our adblocking instructionspage.